Jam! is an interactive music instrument for the NES. Player 1 controls percussion and Player 2 controls melody.


Player 1: Drums and noise

A-Button: Bass drum
B-Button: Snare drum
Up: Hi-hat
Left: Noise
Right: Low note
Down: Crash
Start: High note
Select: Change background color 

Player 2: Triangle Synth Wave

A-Button: C#
B-Button: E
Select: G#
Start: B
Up: C#
Down: D
Left: E
Right F#


Simple 8-beat
A, Up, B, Up
or
A, Left, B, Left

Simple loop melody:
Right, Right, Up, Up

Tricky loop melody:
Down, Left, Up, Left, Right, Left, Up, Left
Down, Left, Up, Left, Start, Left, Up, Left

8 Beat with a simple melody:
A, Left, B, Left x4
A, Start, B, Start x4

Mixed noise:
Hold Right or Start and hold auto fire A

Telephone call:
(Player 2) Right, Down, Right, Down, Right, Down, Right, Down
Smoke on Water 
(Player 2) Select, Start, Up, Select, Start Down, Up, Select, Start, Up, Start, Up
(Hold down Auto fire A on controller 1 for a more distorted sound)


Q&A

How do I open the file?
You need to download a NES emulator and open it from there. I recommend either Nestopia or Fceux.

Does this actually run on a Nintendo console?
I haven’t tried, but it should! The only problem would perhaps be the controls. Since I programmed the inputs on a keyboard using a custom layout, it might feel weird or awkward playing it on an actual controller. 

How was this made?
The rom was entirely programmed in assembly code for the 6502 architecture. I used VisualStudio to code and cc65 to compile the code. I did not code from scratch but found bits and pieces of code online and put it together with trial and error. 

How long did it take?
It took a very long time. It took me many sessions of endless coding to figure out how to even turn the screen to a different color. Once I figured out controller inputs and loops it got easier.   

Are you going to improve or update the rom?
Yes, I’ll make small adjustments here and there but nothing big. 

Any future projects?
Maybe a simple platformer or some mini game and that’s about it. I will be using Python for more serious projects.
